we begin with breaking news this hour as
Israel's military saying it's resumed
operations in the Gaza Strip just
minutes after a 7-Day paus in fighting
ended the temporary ceasefire expired at
7:00 a.m. local time but negotiators
failed to agree a further extension that
would have secured the release of more
Hamas held hostages Israel said it
resumed combat after the militant group
violated the terms of the truce there's
been no immediate comment from Hamas
which is considered a terrorist
organization by the US and the
EU we're joined Now by DW correspondent
Ben fulan in Jerusalem Ben Israel's
military says it has resumed combat
operations in the Gaza Strip do we know
any more detail at this
point it confirmed exactly that Anthony
30 minutes after the truce had run out
we were expecting a possible extension
of that truce but uh that hasn't
happened
uh it's said that uh or rather we saw
videos on social media smoke billowing
from jabalia refugee camp in the north
also journalists reporting artillery
fire in Gaza City and drones seen in the
south of the Gaza Strip as well as a
house in Rafa being targeted and many
wounded according to reports um this is
uh the first time in seven days that uh
we've seen fighting that had been
sporadic rocket fire tank fire and
artillery fire but uh this now sounds
like the war is back on in full force to
use the words of the
Israelis netanyahu's office confirmed
the resumption of fighting as you say
saying Israel is committed to achieve
its Targets in the war what exactly are
those
targets uh the targets haven't changed
uh to release all of the hostages to um
ensure that Gaza no longer poses a
threat to the civilians of Israel and
that Hamas is dismantled over this 7-Day
pause we'd seen over a 100 hostages
released 240 Palestinian prisoners in
return and more Aid getting into the
civilians remembering that uh some
reported
15,000 civilians have died in the
fighting in Gaza including uh Hamas
Fighters and other combatants uh some
1.7 million people having been displaced
mainly from the north to the South uh
remembering that Israel had made it
clear if this truce or when this truce
uh is over it will concentrate its
operation on the south of the Gaza Strip
hence the warnings from the US to be
more precise in its targets because so
many civilians have been caught up in
the crossfire and those civilians now
expect to move to the north what's left
in the north uh much of it is a
wasteland according to reports and the
pictures we've seen and the uh small
areas uh that have been set up as safe
areas in the South according to um
groups humanitarian groups way too small
to house all of these uh displaced
people uh another thing benan Netanyahu
said was that Hamas failed to agree on
the release further hostages you've
reported extensively in this space since
you've been in Jerusalem where does a
resumption of fighting leave efforts to
negotiate further
releases well according to Israel uh its
resumption of fighting will only put
more pressure on Hamas to release those
hostages uh the hard part though is uh
for Hamas is finding those hostages
according to reports were receiving this
morning that it was finding a difficult
to uh find the rest of the women
according to Israel the terms were all
of the women would be released by today
uh a list coming last minute according
to reports and uh Israel not happy with
that the other part of the problem here
is that Hamas fired Rockets towards
Israeli civilians uh according to Israel
early this morning in the last hour
before the truce and in just the minutes
before the truce ended and afterwards
there were more Sirens going off in
southern Israel more rocket alerts um
also Hamas refusing to uh give any sort
of explanation refusing to take
responsibility so a lot of uncertainty
this morning as to exactly what's gone
wrong uh with those ceasefire
negotiations and the negotiations to
extend the
ceasefire DW correspondent Ben folan in
Jerusalem thank
you
well ham belalia is a journalist from
Gaza who was able to escape to the
Jordanian Capital Aman in the early days
of this conflict we welcome him now ham
Israel says it has resumed its military
operation what are you hearing from Gaza
what are gazans going through in the
early stages of this resumption in
fighting yeah since the the the time um
of um the the ending the season Fire or
the bows the the air strikes continued
clashes reported from different areas
whether from the north from the east of
J in the middle area even in in the
South um many air strikes take place
artillery shells here from different
places according to the medical um
officials in Gaza many casualties are
reported uh whether from kanun or Rafa
or even from Gala City
Israel accused Hamas of firing Rockets
from northern Gaza this morning ham can
we confirm
that well it's not easy to confirm any
any party um uh statement on this regard
nobody is close to the fighting um front
line um Israel accused Hamas Hamas
didn't admit this it could be happening
or but we don't know nobody on the
ground can confirm or deny is um uh this
is a competing area um anybody
approaching it would be shot um many
incidents happened before the
Palestinians approached some areas they
to to check their houses and they were
shot tell us about the humanitarian
situation in Gaza hasm has it noticeably
improved during the weekl long pausing
fighting that brought us to this
point if we compare it between uh before
the bows and after um of course there is
a little bit of improvement but whether
it's enough or not it's not according to
the ordinary people they there there are
shortages of everything of food um um of
water uh no electricity
telecommunication is very poor um uh
access to the areas is limited um people
are suffering from um finding basic
needs like um cooking gas as lines are
still there um people are taking long
time of rech recharging their their
devices mobile phones to to be connected
um items of food that entering are like
it's it's very limited cans and some
medical supplies as well uh whereas the
the access to the water is is is very
hard as well so as they fight for daily
Necessities the Israeli military has
called on Palestinians to stay in
Southern Gaza how safe do they feel
there um if we if we talk about today
more air strikes happen in the South
than the north um there was um air
strike uh reported in Rafa City it's the
southr city of of Gaza stb one in kanun
about 200 M away from ner Hospital
according to a colleague there there was
another strike in maazi east of uh of
Central Area many casualties were
reported there so people believe like
there is no uh complete safe place uh in
in across the Gaza Strip journalist hen
bisha thank you so
much thank
you now as Israel presumes operations
against Hamas militants International
pressure is growing to do more to
protect civilian lives according to the
Hamas run Health Ministry in Gaza 15,000
Palestinians have been killed in the 8we
conflict I made clear that before Israel
resumes major military operations it
must put in place humanitarian civilian
protection plans that minimize further
casualties of innocent
Palestinians that means taking more
effective steps to protect the lives of
civilians including by clearly and
precisely designating areas and places
in Southern and Central Gaza where they
can be safe and out of the line of fire
it means avoiding further significant
displacement of civilians inside of Gaza
it means avoiding damage to life
critical infrastructure like hospitals
like power stations like water
facilities and it means giving civilians
who've been displaced to Southern Gaza
the choice to return to the north as
soon as conditions
permit there must be no enduring
internal
displacement well for more Let's cross
over to military expert Frank lewi who
is in Oxford Frank is what the US
Secretary State Anthony blinkin calls
for feasible from a military perspective
in such a tight
area well if uh I was advising the IDF
which fortunately for them I am not I
would suggest that a safe area for
civilians might also constitute a safe
area for the remnants such as it is of
Hamas I can't imagine the Israeli
military are very keen on this idea uh
for for very good reason and of course
they're not the only ones right on the
other side of the spectrum Egypt has
said that it doesn't like them because
it sees them as a precursor to expulsion
in other words Gathering people in one
place to be moved about and
humanitarians rather more reasonably say
look you can't crowd people in areas
like that without proper supplies food
medical uh facilities and so forth and
expect them to survive and this is
supported Again by The World Health
Organization for slightly different
although very closely connected reasons
of Public Health
it's a it's a very tall order this and
uh but to ran back to the military issue
a safe zone for civilians hamas's major
defensive weapon of course is the
civilian population and they will use
that Gaza City then has already been hit
particularly hard as we've seen over and
over what more is there to achieve for
the Israeli military that has already
been achieved in its war against Hamas
where might Israel's Focus be from this
point on
well Anthony they haven't finished
dealing with uh or clearing the northern
part of Gaza yet in fact my take on the
maps that are available they're probably
about onethird the way through there
they found in that time 400 tunnels
they've killed probably hundreds maybe
thousands of Hamas activists and uh they
will continue to do so I suspect by the
way that the rate of Civilian casualties
thankfully will go down partly as a
result of blink and
uh intervention uh but back back to what
they have yet to do it's a token I think
of how much there is to do that none of
the three major
targets uh Isa T and above all shinari
have yet been uh killed or indeed
captured and I think those would be
major targets for the Israelis in as
individuals and as we will no doubt see
Hamas still will retain some coherence
as a military force we'll see what the
extent of that over the next few days no
there's plenty for the Israelis to do uh
Secretary of State blink's concern is
that whilst the Israeli Defense Forces
seem to be planning for an operation for
months he says look politically you've
got weeks and uh for them to to to
achieve their objectives in that time
will be really difficult I think is
there any way of knowing Frank how much
of a threat Hamas still poses to the
better equipped Israeli military at this
point how much capability does Hamas
still
have well I think what the Israeli would
say considerable and we will we will
know when the Israelis think that they
have achieved their objectives when they
they say so and when the operation
rounds and gr grinds to a close and
we're nowhere near that I mean the first
thing that happened this morning was was
a rocket attack which uh seems to have
breached the ceasefire and caused the uh
resumption of hostilities we noted note
by the way earlier in the week Hammer
still retains of significant terrorist
capability within Israel as well as a
huge terrorist capability within Gaza
having killed
at a bus stop three three civilians I
have no doubt at all that Hamas is still
a going concern and so are the other
groups alongside it and of course let's
not forget as well the remaining 150 or
so perhaps even more depending on
whether we can believe how many are
still alive according to Hamas uh uh
Still Still within Gaza there's so much
for the Israelis yet to do you refer to
the fragility of the truth Frank how
hard is it going to be to achieve
another truth what does history teach us
about breaking a truce and then
achieving a pause in fighting
again yes I think that's that's a very
interesting question and we have to
remember here that the people involved
in in this on all sides are really grit
gritty pragmatic let's say if we can
call them that uh pragmatic uh
individuals you got mosad on the one
side and Hamas leadership safely in
sconed there in Qatar on the other as
well as Americans
qataris to some extent other other s too
and these are realists and it may well
be that both sides May calculate at some
point in the future just as they did
last week that the stars are aligned for
another uh another ceasefire possibly
for humanitarian reasons possibly to
release more hostages and exchange more
prisoners now i' I've little doubt that
this could be repeated um and and I
think we may well see that but uh that's
uh we're casting ahead into the future
there's so many contingencies very
difficult to say Obviously great to get
your Insight Frank Military expert Frank
ledbridge in Oxford thank you so
much thank
you